---
layout: post
title:  "Git Notes"
date:   2018-11-25 13:45:40
categories: git "version control" vcs
---
A colleciton of the notes from youtube videos about git tutorials and deep dive sessions

* `git log -L <start line no>,<end line no.>:filename`
* `git log --graph --online`
* `git config --global color.ui auto`
* `git status -sb`
* `git grep`
* `git config --global help.autocorrect 10`
* `git add -p`
* `git merge --no-edit`
* `git rebase -i`, `git rebase -i HEAD~5`, `git rebase -i --squash`
* `git lfs`

# Git

## Basic commands
* **git init**: creates a new sub directory named .git that contains all of the necessary repository files - a Git repository skeleton.
* **git add**: specify the files you'd like to be tracked by the Git version control system.
* **git clone**: `git clone https://github.com/example/example.git` - Clone a repository that will create a cirectory named example, initializes a .git directorry and pulls down all the data for that respository.

> Remember that each file in your working directory can be in one of two states: ***tracked*** or ***untracked***. Tracked files are files that were in the last snapshot; they can be unmodified, modified, or staged. In short, tracked files are files that Git knows about.

> If you have a class of files that you don't want Git to automatically add or even show you as being untracked, you can create a file listing patterns to match them named `.gitignore` 

* **git status**: main tool to determine which files are in which state.
	* `git status --short`: simplified output of the git status 
* **git diff**: The command compares what is in your working directory with what is in your staging area.
	* `git diff --staged`: compares the staged changes to the last commit.
* **git commit**: Doing so launches your editor of choice. (This is set by your shell's *EDITOR* environment)
	* `git config --global core.editor`
	* `git commit -m "<commit message>"`
	* `git commit -a`: skip the staging area. Makes Git automatically stage every file that is already tracked before doing the commit, letting you skip the `git add`
	* `git commit --amend`: Fix missing files or messages from the last commit.
* **git rm**: To remove a file from git
	* `git rm --force`
	* `git rm --cached`: keep the file in the working directory but remove it from the staging area
* **git mv**: Rename a file, which is equivalent to the following commands:
	* `git rm <old filename>`
	* `git add <new filename>`
* **git log**: viewing the commit history in reverse chronological order
	* `git log --patch -2`:  show the difference (the patch output) introduced in each commit and limit the number of log entries to show only the last two entries.
	* `git log --state`: see some abbreviated stats for each commit
	* `git log --pretty=oneline`: show the output in roughly the same format but with less or more information, respectively.
	* `git log --pretty=format: "%h - %an, %cd : %s" --graph`
	* `git log --since=2.weeks`; git log --since="20018-01-15"; git log --after; git log --before`
	* `git log --author="<author name" --grep "<pattern>"`
	* `git log -S function_name`: show only commits that changed the number of occurrences of that string (ex. function_name)
* **git reset HEAD &lt;file&gt;**: unstage a staged file
* **git checkout -- &lt;file&gt;**: unmodifying a modified file

## Working with Remotes
> Remote repositories can be on your local machine. The word "remote" does not necessarily imply that the repository is somwhere elese on the network or Internet, only that it's elsewhere.

* **git remote**: It lists the shortnames of each remote handle you have specified. If you have cloned your repository, you should at least see ***origin*** - this is the default name Git gives to the server you cloned from.
	* `git remote -v`: shows the URLs that git has stored for the shortname to be used when reading and writing to that remote.
	* `git remote add <shortname> <url>`: add a new remote Git repository as a shortname you can reference.
		* ex. git remote add pb https://github.com/paul/ticgit
		* If you want to fetch all the information that Paul has but that you don't yet have in your respository, you can run `git fetch pb`
* **git fetch**: `git fetch <remote>` - pulls down all the data from that remote project that you don't have yet. After you do this, you should have references to all the branches from that remote, which you can merge in or inspect at any time.

> ***git fetch*** command only download sthe data to your local repository - it doesn't automatically merge it with any of your work or modify what you're currently working on. You have to merge it manually into your work when you're ready.

* **git push**: `git push <remote> <branch>` - ex. git push origin master: push your *master* branch to your *origin* server
* **git remote show**: `git remote show <remote>` - see more information about a particular remote.
* **git remote rename**: change a remote's shortname. ex. `git remote rename pb paul` - rename the shortname *pb* to *paul*
* **git remote remove/rm**: remove a remote

## Tagging
Git has the ability to tag specific points in history as being important. Typically people use this functionality to mark *release points*.

* **git tag**: listing the available tags.
	* `git tag -l "v1.8.5*"` - looking at the 1.8.5 series.
	```
		v1.8.5
		v1.8.5-rc1
		v1.8.5-rc2
		...
	```
* **git tag -a**: Creatingg an annotated tag in Git
	* `git add -a v1.4 -m "message"`
	* `git show v1.4`
	* `git tag v1.4`: lightweight tags
	* `git tag -a v1.2 <commit checksum>`: add a tag to the commit
	* `git push origin <tagname>`: By default, the `git push` command doesn't transfer tags to remote servers, so it has to be explicitly done.
* **git tag -d**: 
	* `git tag -d v1.4`:  delete a tag

## Branching
> The default branch name in Git is <b><i>master</i></b>
> <b><i>HEAD</i></b> is a special pointer that points to the current branch

* **git branch**: create a new branch. ex. `git branch testing`
* **git checkout**: switch to a branch. ex. `git checkout testing`
	* It moves the ***HEAD*** pointer to point to the switched branch 
and it reverted the files in the working directory back to the snapshot of that branch.
	* `git checkout -b <branch> <remote>/<branch>`
	* `git checkout --track <remote>/<branch>`: same as above but create the same name as the remote branch locally.
> Switching branches changes files in your working directory. It's important to note that when you switch branches in Git, files in your working directory will change.If you switch to an older branch, your working directory will be reverted to look like it did the last time you committed on that branch. If Git cannot do it cleanly, it will not let you switch at all.

